# Title page
    - Hi everyone, so my project is on Riemann surfaces, which are surfaces that locally look like the complex plane.
    - By 'locally looking like the complex plane', I mean that for every point on the surface, I can find a small enough neighborhood around that point that is homeomorphic to an open set in $\C$. We call the collection of all such neighborhoods and homeomorphisms a complex structure on the surface.
    - Generally speaking, Riemann surfaces are obtained by equipping a surface with a complex structure, and we wanted to investigate the number of different ways we can turn surfaces into a Riemann surface. In other words, the number of different complex structures on a surface.
    - To illustrate, let's look at an example.
# Obvious one
    - On the plane, there's a standard way of giving it a complex structure by taking the neighborhood of each point to just be all of $\R^2$, and sending the point $\tpl{x,y}$ to the complex number $x+iy$.
    - However, we can assign complex structures in any reasonable way we want, so why not something like this?
# Conjugate one
    - This gives us a different complex structure on $\R^2$ by essentially using the conjugate map.
# Biholomorphisms
    - But those two are in some sense the same. The first one is saying that $i^2=-1$ and the second one is saying that $-i^2=-1$.
    - In fact, we can make this precise by saying that there is an isomorphism between the two that preserves the complex structure, which we call a biholomorphism.
    - So we say that $\R^2$, equipped with the two different complex structures, are biholomorphic.
# Refined question
    - We can now refine the question, and instead of asking about literally how many complex structures there are, we only ask up to biholomorphism.
    - If we do that, it turns out that the plane admits two complex structures.
# Two complex structures on $\R^2$
    - The first one is what we just saw, which is the usual one, and the other one maps everything to the upper-half plane, which turns out to be a model of the hyperbolic plane.
    - Those two are fundamentally different complex structures on $\R^2$, as there is no biholomorphism between the two.
    - In fact those are the only two complex structures on $\R^2$.
# Riemann surfaces
    - So $\R^2$ is the simplest example of a surface, and in general they look like these.
    - We want to find the number of ways of turning those surfaces into Riemann surfaces. The complex structures on those surfaces are more complicated now.
    - Take the sphere, for example. If I pick a point on the sphere, I need to find a sufficiently small enough neighborhood of that point and flatten it to $\C$, and I need to count the number of different ways of doing so.
    - We'll only focus on compact surfaces now, so we can use a fact from topology that
# Classification of surfaces
    - Two compact surfaces differ only by the number of holes that they have.
    - For example, the sphere with one handle is homeomorphic to the torus, since they both just have one hole.
    - For the rest of the presentation, I'll talk about how many different complex structures there are on the torus, which are called complex tori, and the sphere.
# Topological torus
    - Recall that a torus is obtained by quotienting the plane by a lattice.
    - So here's a picture. On the left is a lattice, which is spanned by two vectors $\omega_1$ and $\omega_2$, and the torus is obtained by glueing the sides of the parallelogram that it forms.
    - Topologically speaking, there is only one torus, so the particular choice of the $\omega$'s don't matter, but in fact we can equip it with different complex structures to give us different complex tori, and the choice of complex structure is determined by the choice of the $\omega$'s.
    - So we need to determine how different $\omega$'s give rise to different complex structures on the torus.
# Scaling/rotating doesn't matter
    - From complex analysis we know that holomorphic maps, which are maps that preserve the complex structure, also preserve angles.
    - So, intuitively, if we do anything to the plane that preserve angles, like scaling and rotating, the resulting complex tori should be biholomorphic.
    - This is indeed the case, and if the lattice is spanned by $\omega_1$ and $\omega_2$, we can scale and rotate the parallelogram so that $\omega_1$ becomes $1$, and $\omega_2$ becomes the ratio $\omega_2/\omega_1$, which we call $\tau$.
    - This $\tau$ lies in the upper-half plane of $\C$ and we call the torus it generates $X_\tau$, which is the quotient of $\C$ by the lattice spanned by $1$ and $\tau$.
    - So far, we've seen that every complex number $\tau$ in the upper-half plane generates a torus, and conversely that every torus is generated by such a $\tau$.
    - However, it turns out that given a torus, there are different $\tau$'s that generate it.
# Fundamental domain and the moduli space
    - To illustrate, let's fix a $\tau$ in the upper-half plane.
    - If we shift this $\tau$ one unit to the right to get $\tau'$, the resulting tori $X_\tau$ and $X_{\tau'}$ are actually biholomorphic.
    - It gets worse. If we map $\tau$ to any one of those red points, the tori generated by all those red points are all biholomorphic.
    - Within any one of those triangular regions though, like the shaded region, varying $\tau$ within this region will generate different complex tori. This region, which is called the fundamental domain, parametrizes the different complex structures on the torus.
    - Now, we still need to remove the redundancies, so we take the quotient of the upper-half plane under the group action that sends $\tau$ to the other red points. This quotient, which now uniquely parametrizes the complex structure of the torus, is called the moduli space of the torus.
# Modular group
    - Explicitly, the group of functions that send $\tau$ to $\tau'$ is called the modular group.
    - And we've proved that two tori $X_\tau$ and $X_{\tau'}$ are biholomorphic iff $\tau$ and $\tau'$ are related by an element of the modular group, so we conclude that the moduli space of the torus is $\H/\PSL\l(2,\Z\r)$.
    - This answers the question for the torus, but to reiterate:
    - The $\H$ comes from the fact that every lattice is determined by some $\tau$ in the upper-half plane, and we take the quotient by the modular group to remove redundant $\tau$'s that generate the same torus.
# Riemann sphere
    - Let's also quickly talk about the sphere, which turns out to admit a unique complex structure.
    - This is pretty surprising, and this means is that if you have any simply-connected compact topological space, which is what a sphere is, then you already know what complex structure to put on it.
    - The proof for this is hard, but it essentially goes like this. Let's fix a particular complex structure on the sphere and call the resulting Riemann surface the Riemann sphere.
    - Our goal now is to show that every other sphere $X$ is biholomorphic to the Riemann sphere.
    - To do so, we first proved that if we can find a function defined on all of $X$ that blows up to infinity at a single point, then $X$ is biholomorphic to the Riemann sphere.
    - Defining such a function locally on a small patch of $X$ is easy, since, being a Riemann surface, $X$ just locally looks like $\C$ and we can define the function as $1/z$. But we need a function defined globally on all of $X$.
    - So what we first tried was to use analytic continuation to extend the domain of the function $1/z$ it to the rest of $X$, but this process was a bit more intricate than we thought, so it didn't work out.
    - Instead, what we needed was tools from sheaf cohomology, which gives us sufficient conditions to patch up a bunch of local functions into a global one.
    - This turned out to work, which gives us a function defined on all of $X$ that blows up to infinity at a single point and so proves the theorem.
    - This theorem is actually a pretty significant result in the theory of Riemann surfaces and is part of the so-called Uniformization Theorem.

So that's it! Thanks a lot for your attention.
